The main exception to primate researchers’ general pattern has been the study of male care among 
monogamous primates. It has been known for over 200 years, ever since a zoologist- illustrator 
named George Edwards decided to watch the behavior of pet marmosets in a London garden, 
that among certain species of New World monkeys males contributed direct care for infants that 
equaled or exceeded that given by females. Mothers among marmosets and tamarins typically 
give birth to twins, as often as twice a year, and to court the female in her staggering 
reproductive burden the male carries the infant at all times except when the mother is actually 
suckling it. It was assumed by Kleiman that monogamy and male confidence of paternity were 
essential to the evolution of such care, and at the same time, it was assumed by Symons and others 
that monogamy among primates must be fairly rare. 

Recent findings, however, make it necessary to reverse this picture. First of all, monogamy among 
primates turns out to be rather more frequent than previously believed (either obligate or facultive 
monogamy can be documented for some 17-20 percent of extant primates) and second, male care 
turns out to be far more extensive than previously thought and not necessarily confined to 
monogamous species, according to Hrdy. Whereas previously, it was assumed that monogamy and 
male certainty of paternity facilitated the evolution of male care, it now seems appropriate to 
consider the alternative possibility that the extraordinary capacity of male primates to look out for 
the fates of infants did in some way pre-adapt members of this order for the sort of close, 
long-term relationships between males and females that, under some ecological circumstances, 
leads to monogamy. Either scenario could be true. The point is that on the basis of present 
knowledge there is no reason to view male care as a restricted or specialized phenomenon. In sum, 
though it remains true that mothers among virtually all primates devote more time and/ or energy 
to rearing infants than do males, males nonetheless play a more varied and critical role in infant 
survival than is generally realized. 