The human criterion for perfect vision is 20/20 for reading the standard lines on a Snellen eye chart without a hitch. The 
score is determined by how well you read lines of letters of different sizes from 20 feetaway. But being able to read the 
bottom line on the eye chart does not approximate perfection as far as other species are concerned. Most birds would 
consider us very visually handicapped. The hawk. for instance,has such sharp eyes that it can spot a dime on the sidewalk 
while perched on top of the Empire State Building+ It can make fine visual distinctions because it is blessed with one 
million cones per square millimeter in its retina. And in water, humans are farsighted. while the kingfisher, swooping 
down to spear fish. can see well in both the air and water because it is endowed with two foveae.-areas of the eye, 
consisting mostly of cones. that provide visual distinctions. One fovea permits the bird, while in theair. to scan the water 
below with one eye at a time. This is called monocular vision. Once it hits the water, the other fovea joins in, allowing the 
kingfisher to focus both eyes, like binoculars, on its prey at the same time. A frog's vision is distinguished by its ability to 
perceive things as a constant motion picture. Known as "bug detectors", a highly developed set of cells in a frog's eyes 
responds mainly to movingobjects. So, it is said that a frog sitting in a field of dead bugs wouldn’t see them as food and
 would starve.

　　The bee has a "compound" eye. which is used for navigation. It has 15,000 facets that divide what it sees into a pattern 
of dots. or mosaic. With this hind of vision, the bee sees the sun only as a single dot, a constant point of reference. Thus, 
the eye is a superb navigational instrument that constantly measures the angle of its line of flight in relation to the sun. A 
bee's eye also gauges flight speed. And if that isnot enough to leave our 20/20 "perfect vision” paling into insignificance. 
the bee is capable of seeing something we can't-ultraviolet light. Thus,what humans consider to be "perfect vision"is in fact
 rather limited when we look at other species. However, there is still much to be said for the human eye. Of all the mammals,
 only humans and some primates can enjoy the pleasures of color vision.
