Every year television stations receive hundreds of complaints about the loudness of advertisements. However. federal rules 
forbid the practice of making ads louder than the programming. In addition, television stations always operate at the 
highest sound level allowed for reasons of efficiency. According to one NBC executive. no difference exists in the peak
 sound level of ads and programming. Given this information. whydo commercials sound so loud?

　　The sensation of sound involves a variety of factors in addition to its peak level. Advertisers are skilful at creating the 
impression of loudness through their expert use of such factors. One major contributor to the perceived loudness of 
commercials is that much less variation in sound level occurs during a commercial. In regular programming the intensity of 
sound varies over a large range. However, sound levels in commercials tend to stay at or near peak levels.

　　Other "tricks of the trade" are also used. Because low-frequency sounds can mask higher frequency sounds. advertisers 
filter out any noises that may drown out the primary message. In addition, the human voice hasmore auditory impact in 
the middle frequency ranges. Advertisers electronically vary voice sounds so that they stay within such a frequency band. 
Another approach is to write the script so that lots of consonants are used, because people are more aware of consonants 
than vowel  sounds. Finally, advertisers try to begin commercials with sounds that are highly different from those of 
the programming within which the commercial is buried. Because people become adapted to the type of sounds coming 
from programming. a dramatic change in sound quality draws viewer attention. For example. notice how many commercials 
begin with a cheerful song of some type.

　　The attention-getting property of commercials can be seen by observing one-to-two-year-old children who happen to 
be playing around a television set. They may totally ignore the programming. However. when a commercial comes on.their 
attention is immediately drawn to it because of its dramatic sound quality.
