Extraordinary creative activity has been characterized as revolutionary, flying in the face of 
what is established and producing not what is acceptable but what will become accepted. 
According to this formulation, highly creative activity transcends the limits of an existing 
form and establishes a new principle of organization. However, the idea that extraordinary 
creativity transcends established limits is misleading when it is applied to the arts, even 
though it may be valid for the sciences. Difference between highly creative art and highly 
creative science arise in part from a difference in their goals. For the sciences, a new theory 
is the goal and end result of the creative act. Innovative science produces new propositions 
in terms of which diverse phenomena can be related to one another in more coherent ways. 
Such phenomena as a brilliant diamond or a nesting bird are relegated to the role of data, 
serving as the means for formulating or testing a new theory. The goal of highly creative art 
is very different: the phenomenon itself becomes the direct product of the creative act. 
Shakespeare`s Hamlet is not a tract about the behavior of indecisive princes or the uses of 
political power; nor is Picasso`s painting Guernica primarily a propositional statement about 
the Spanish Civil War or the evils of fascism. What highly creative artistic activity produces is 
not a new generalization that transcends established limits, but rather an aesthetic particular. 
Aesthetic particulars produced by the highly creative artist extend or exploit, in an innovative way, 
the limits of an existing form, rather than transcend that form. 

This is not to deny that a highly creative artist sometimes establishes a new principle of organization 
in the history of an artistic field; the composer Monteverdi, who created music of the highest aesthetic 
value, comes to mind. More generally, however, whether or not a composition establishes a new 
principle in the history of music has little bearing on its aesthetic worth. Because they embody a new 
principle of organization, some musical works, such as the operas of the Florentine Camerata, are of 
signal historical importance, but few listeners or musicologists would include these among the great 
works of music. On the other hand, Mozart`s The Marriage of Figaro is surely among the masterpieces 
of music even though its modest innovations are confined to extending existing means. It has been said 
of Beethoven that he toppled the rules and freed music from the stifling confines of convention. But a 
close study of his compositions reveals that Beethoven overturned no fundamental rules. Rather, he was 
an incomparable strategist who exploited limits一the rules, forms, and conventions that he inherited from 
predecessors such as Haydn and Mozart, Handel and Bach-in strikingly original ways.