The evolution of intelligence among early large mammals of the grasslands was due in great measure to the interaction 
between two ecologically synchronized groups of these animals, the hunting carnivores and the herbivores that they 
hunted. The interaction resulting from the differences between predator and prey led to a general improvement in 
brain functions; however, certain components of intelligence were improved far more than others. 

The kind of intelligence favored by the interplay of increasingly smarter catchers and increasingly keener escapers is 
defined by attention-that aspect of mind carrying consciousness forward from one moment to the next. It ranges from 
a passive, free-floating awareness to a highly focused, active fixation. The range through these states is mediated by 
the arousal system, a network of tracts converging from sensory systems to integrating centers in the brain stem. From 
the more relaxed to the more vigorous levels, sensitivity to novelty is increased. The organism is more awake, more 
vigilant; this increased vigilance results in the apprehension of ever more subtle signals as the organism becomes more 
sensitive to its surroundings. The processes of arousal and concentration give attention its direction. Arousal is at irst 
general, with a flooding of impulses in the brain stem; then gradually the activation is channeled. Thus begins 
concentration, the holding of consistent images. One meaning of intelligence is the way in which these images and 
other alertly searched information are used in the context of previous experience. Consciousness links past attention to 
the present and permits the integration of details with perceived ends and purposes. 

The elements of intelligence and consciousness come together marvelously to produce different styles in predator and 
prey. Herbivores and carnivores develop different kinds of attention related to escaping or chasing. Although in both 
kinds of animal, arousal stimulates the production of adrenaline and norepinephrine by the adrenal glands, the effect in 
herbivores is primarily fear, whereas in carnivores the effect is primarily aggression. For both, arousal attunes the animal 
to what is ahead. Perhaps it does not experience forethought as we know it, but the animal does experience something 
like it. The predator is searchingly aggressive, inner-directed, tuned by the nervous system and the adrenal hormones, 
but aware in a sense closer to human consciousness than, say, a hungry lizard`s instinctive snap at a passing beetle. 
Using past events as a framework, the large mammal predator is working out a relationship between movement and 
food, sensitive to possibilities in cold trails and distant sounds-and yesterday`s unforgotten lessons. The herbivore prey 
is of a different mind. Its mood of wariness rather than searching and its attitude of general expectancy instead of 
anticipating are silk-thin veils of tranquility over an explosive endocrine system.