Many theories have been formulated to explain the role of grazers such as zooplankton in controlling the amount 
of planktonic algae (phytoplankton) in lakes. The first theories of such grazer control were merely based on 
observations of negative correlations between algal and zooplankton numbers. A low number of algal cells in the 
presence of a high number of grazers suggested, but did not prove, that the grazers had removed most of the algae. 
The converse observation, of the absence of grazers in areas of high phytoplankton concentration, led Hardy to 
propose his principle of animal exclusion, which hypothesized that phytoplankton produced a repellent that excluded 
grazers from regions of high phytoplankton concentration. This was the first suggestion of algal defenses against 
grazing. 

Perhaps the fact that many of these first studies considered only algae of a size that could be collected in a net (net 
phytoplankton), a practice that overlooked the smaller phytoplankton (nannoplankton) that we now know grazers are 
most likely to feed on, led to a de-emphasis of the role of grazers in subsequent research. Increasingly, as in the 
individual studies of Lund, Round, and Reynolds, researchers began to stress the importance of environmental factors 
such as temperature, light, and water movements in controlling algal numbers. These environmental factors were 
amenable to field monitoring and to simulation in the laboratory. Grazing was believed to have some effect on algal 
numbers, especially after phytoplankton growth rates declined at the end of bloom periods, but grazing was considered 
a minor component of models that predicted algal population dynamics. 

The potential magnitude of grazing pressure on freshwater phytoplankton has only recently been determined 
empirically. Studies by Hargrave and Geen estimated natural community grazing rates by measuring feeding rates 
of individual zooplankton species in the laboratory and then computing community grazing rates for field conditions 
using the known population density of grazers. The high estimates of grazing pressure postulated by these researchers 
were not fully accepted, however, until the grazing rates of zooplankton were determined directly in the field, by means 
of new experimental techniques. Using a specially prepared feeding chamber, Haney was able to record zooplankton 
grazing rates in natural field conditions. In the periods of peak zooplankton abundance, that is, in the late spring and in 
the summer, Haney recorded maximum daily community grazing rates, for nutrient-poor lakes and bog lakes, 
respectively, of 6.6 percent and 114 percent of daily phytoplankton production. Cladocerans had higher grazing rates 
than copepods, usually accounting for 80 percent of the community grazing rate. These rates varied seasonally, reaching 
the lowest point in the winter and early spring. Haney`s thorough research provides convincing field evidence that 
grazers can exert significant pressure on phytoplankton population.