Jesus spent his last few hours of liberty quietly in the suburb of Bethany. It was the day of Passover. The Jews observed 
this feast by eating roast lamb and unleavened bread.

　　Jesus asked his disciples to go to town and reserve a room in one of the smaller inns and order a dinner that they 
might all be together.

　　When evening came, Judas, looking bland and innocent, left the house together with the others. They went down 
the Mount of Olives and entered the city and found that everything was ready. They took their seats around one long 
table and began to eat.

　　But it was not a cheerful meal. They felt the dread of those coming events which already were casting their terrible 
shadow over the small group of faithful friends.

　　Jesus spoke very little. The others sat in gloomy silence. At last Peter could stand it no longer, and he blurted out 
what was in everybody's mind . "Master, "he said,"we want to know. Do you have reason to suspect one of us?"Softly 
Jesus answered, "Yes. One among you who is now sitting at this table will bring disaster upon us all. " Then all the 
disciples got up and crowded around him. They protested their innocence. At that moment Judas slipped quietly out of 
the room. They now all knew what was to come. They could no longer remain in that little room. They needed fresh air, 
and they left the inn and walked out of the gate and went back to the Mount of Olives and opened the wicket to a 
garden which a friend had told them to use whenever they wished to be alone . It was called Gethsemane , after an old 
oil-press which stood in a corner. After a while Jesus walked away from the little group. But three of the disciples who 
were closest to him, followed at a distance.

　　He turned around and bade them wait and watch while he prayed.

　　The time had come for a final decision. Escape was still possible , but escape would mean a silent confession of guilt 
and defeat for his ideas.

　　He was alone among the silent trees and fought his last great battle . He was a man in the fullness of his years. Life 
still held a great promise. Death, once his enemies captured him, would come in a most terrible form. He made his choice .
 He stayed. He went back to his friends. And behold! They were fast asleep . A moment later, the whole garden was in an 
uproar. Led by Judas, the guards of the Sanhedrin rushed upon the prophet. Judas was at their head. He threw his arms 
around his master and kissed him. That was the sign for which the soldiers had waited. At that moment, Peter realized 
what was happening.
