Dr. Heinrich Applebaum recently completed a study on the effects of television on children. In his case, though, he wasn't 
concerned with violence , but how television gives children a false sense of reality.

　　Dr. Applebaum told me,“The greatest danger of television is that it presents a world to children that doesn't exist, and 
raises expectations that can never be fulfilled. ""I don't understand, Doctor,"I said. "Well, let me cite one example. 
Have you ever seen a television show where a person in an automobile doesn’t immediately find a parking place on the 
very first try?" "Come to think of it, "I said,“I haven’t. "

　　“Not only is there always a parking spot available but the driver doesn't even have to back into it. There are two 
parking spaces available whenever someone in a TV show needs one . Children are being led to believe that when they 
grow up they will always be able to find a parking place when and where they want it. Can you imagine the trauma when 
they discover that in real life you can drive around a block for three hours and still not find a place to put your car?”

　　“ I never thought of it but it’s true . What else do they show on television which gives a distorted picture of the real 
world?" "Have you noticed that whenever a character walks out of a restaurant or office building or apartment and says to 
the doorman,‘Get me a taxi, ’the taxi immediately arrives? Millions of children are under the impression that all a 
doorman has to do is blow his whistle and a taxi will be there. I have never seen a show where the doorman has said, 
'I'm sorry. I can't get you a taxi. You better take the bus. '" "Of course , "I said."I never knew before what bothered me about 
those TV action programs, but now I do. There is always a yellow taxi waiting off screen. ""Now, "said Applebaum,"have you 
ever said to a taxi driver,' Follow that car and don't lose him'?”

　　“Not really. " "Well, if you had, the driver would have told you to blow it out your ear. No taxi driver is in a mood to 
follow another car because that means he 's going to get involved.

　　But on TV every cabdriver looks as if he 'd like nothing better to do than to drive 90 miles an hour through a rain-swept 
street trying to keep up with a carful of hoods. And the worst thing is that the kids believe it. ”
