The degree to which a bowing or lowering of the body is emphasized varies from one culture to another. in many cultures 
today the full bow or other dramatic lowering of the body is generally reserved for formal occasions such as greeting a 
head of state or monarch. for example, british commoners standing before the queen or being honored by royalty in a 
ceremony of knighthood would be expected to bow, curtsey, or kneel. as part of their religious practices some christians 
kneel, catholics genuflect, and muslims kowtow3 , an extreme form of body lowering in which the forehead is brought to 
the ground. although bowing, as a worldwide phenomenon, has been on the decrease in recent decades, it has survived 
in german culture and exists to an even greater degree in modern japan, where bows are an integral part of everyday 
social interaction . in the united states, however, bowing or any type of submissive body posture is particularly irritating, 
for it tends to connote undue formality, aristocracy, and a nonverbal denial of egalitarianism. nowhere is bowing more 
important to the process of communication today than in japanese society. as an indication of how pervasive bowing is 
in present-day japan, some experts point out that“ some female department store employees have the sole function of 
bowing to customers at department store escalators and that many japanese bow repeatedly to invisible partners at the 
other end of a telephone line”. bowing initiates interaction between two japanese , it enhances and embellishes many 
parts of the ensuing conversation, and it is used to signal the end of a conversation. although westerners, in a very 
general sense, understand the meaning attached to bowing, appropriate bowing in japan is an intricate and complex 
process. reciprocal bowing is determined largely by rank. in fact, it is possible to tell the relative social status of the two 
communicators by the depth of their bows ( the deeper the bow, the lower the status) . when bowing deeply, it is 
conventional to lean slightly to the right to avoid bumping heads. the person of lower status is expected to initiate the 
bow, and the person of higher status determines when the bow is completed. people of equivalent status are expected 
to bow at the same depth while starting and finishing at the same time .
