Christianity began life as a Jewish sect. Far from attempting to find a new religion, the first Christians viewed themselves as 
Jews following the teachings of the Jewish Messiah . It was only later, after many non-Jews converted, that Christianity 
became a religion distinct from Judaism

　　Although Christianity shares much with Judaism, these two faiths differ significantly with respect to such fundamental 
issues as God's relationship with humanity. The central motif through which this relationship has been understood in both 
traditions is that of a covenant or contract. In Hebrew scriptures (the old Testament) , God offers a special relationship with
his chosen people — the Jews through a contract that specifies the terms of this relationship . The details of this 
arrangement have been modified and expanded from time to time, in a series of covenants with Noah, Abraham, and 
Moses. The most well known of these contracts is God’s agreement with Moses on Mt. Sinai, the Ten Commandments.

　　In the Christian understanding of covenant theology, God offers humanity a new contract — the New Testament— as 
revealed in the person and teaching of Jesus. Unlike previous covenants, the new covenant refers to the eternal fate of 
individuals rather than to the worldly fate of the nation of Israel. Also, rather than being offered only to Jews, the new 
contract is offered to humanity as a whole . Individual salvation and the question of how that salvation can be achieved is a 
dominant theme of traditional Christianity.

　　Salvation, according to this tradition, is necessary because otherwise the individual is condemned to spend eternity in 
hell , a place of eternal punishment. Born into sin, the sentence of eternal damnation is the fate of every person unless she 
or he is saved from this fate by being"born again"through faith in Jesus Christ. All other doctrines are built around a 
warning of condemnation and a redeeming message of redemption. As the core doctrine, it would be natural that 
arguments over soteriology ( one's theory of redemption) would lead to religions schisms. Disagreement over competing 
notions of salvation led to the split between Catholicism and Protestantism.

　　Given the stark contrast between heaven and hell as eternal abodes of the soul, serious thinkers have had to grapple
with the question —What happens to people who, while not saints, nevertheless are generally good people who have 
never committed any major sins in their lives? Reflection on this problem led to the development of purgatory, an 
intermediate realm between heaven and hell. In purgatory, souls are tortured for their sins, but are eventually released and 
allowed to enter heaven.