not even a decade ago she was unknown and poor, a single mom on welfare who sometimes pretended to browse in 
maternity stores so she could cadge a free diaper in the changing room. now, after four harry potter books, two movies and 
an armada of related merchandise , j. k. rowling has a fortune estimated at 450 million, according to the london sunday 
times8 rich list, making her 50 million wealthier than the queen of england. her personal life has picked up too . she has 
bought multimillion-dollar houses in london, edinburgh and the scottish hills near perth. and at the end of 2001 , rowling, 
37 , married neil murray, a steady, brainy anesthetist and in march 2003 they had a son david. rowling has admitted that — 
no surprise — harry is her favorite boy's name, but she wisely avoided saddling her son with that lifelong invitation to 
teasing.

　　in fact, rowling has tried to throw a cloak of invisibility around her family so they can live almost normal lives. but 
simple pleasures like strolling to the supermarket in edinburgh or attending her 11 -year-old daughter jessica's christmas 
pageant require constant vigilance against an army of tabloid reporters.

　　the intrusions are only part of the reason rowling is uneasy with fame." i never set out to make a mark, "she tells time.
"i set out to do the thing i love best in the world and find out whether i was any good at it. "she's so good at it that her 
lawyers are constantly swatting down copycats trying to cash in on pottermania . .. . rowling was badly shaken when an 
american writer named nancy stouffer claimed she had stolen the word muggle and otherwise plagiarized stouffer's work. 
a new york city federal judge found that stouffer had“ perpetrated a fraud”. it felt, rowling says,“as if some strange 
woman had come out of nowhere saying she was my children's mother . . . it was like a punch in the stomach . people 
think that if you have been successful, you are insulated from normal feelings of hurt, but you aren't. ”

　　rowling appreciates that she can use her name and money to support charities, including those for one-parent families 
and victims of multiple sclerosis. .. .“one of the few upsides of being famous is being able to do something meaningful, 
"she tells time. after publication of order of the phoenix, rowling will retreat from the spotlight to write book no.  and care 
for her family. she hopes to be remembered as" someone who did the best she could with the talent she was given"and 
she“wouldn't mind being remembered as a good parent”

