The palm-forward "V" sign, formed by raising and spreading the first two fingers, has three different meanings in 
American culture. The most popular meaning of the "V" sign was invented in 1941 by a Belgian, Victor De Lavalaye. 
Wanting a symbol for resistance to the Nazi's occupation, he came up with the single letter "V" , which stood not only for 
his own first name, but also for English victory, Flemish virijheid, and French victoire. The symbolism of the sign spread 
very quickly, and Winston Churchill used it constantly in public appearance. Thus throughout the 1940s and 1950s, the 
gesture meant simply "victory". The second meaning came in the 1960s. Because of its military implication, American 
antiwar protestors used the sign sarcastically against the arms, so that it became known as the "peace sign". In the 1970s, 
the "V" sign , which had lost its military implication, was a common greeting among freedom lovers, acid heads, political 
radicals, and ultimately, young people in general. So by about the middle of the 1970s, it ceased to give clue to the user's 
philosophy. The third meaning is the oldest and least common. American children jokingly put "V", which resembles 
"horns", behind friends' heads in group snapshots. They are unknowingly reproducing something that southern 
Europeans would find highly offensive. This mischief, called "horns of the Devil", is a variant of the European "horns" 
gesture, which is obscene. Here the "V" sign means "your wife has been cheating on you" or, when placed behind 
another's head, "his wife has been cheating on him". In the United States, the gesture is typically given American "finger" . 
Churchill got some surprised stares in 1941 when, evidently unaware of the vulgar usage, he gave the palm-backward "V" 
to British troops. In England today you could have to be a social hermit not to understand the distinction. Astonishingly, 
however, Margaret Thatcher repeated Churchill's error after her victory in the 1979 election.