A World Without Language

　　It may be that when the world was young, no one knew how to talk. People had to learn to speak just like babies do. 
When no one knew how to tell, how did anyone learn? That is a mystery that remains unsolved even today.

　　The Stories Behind Words

　　Lunch

　　Lunch perhaps comes from an old spanish word lonje, a slab of ham. We may get our word from a lump of bread, but 
whether lunch comes from ham or bread, it meant a hunk of something to eat.

　　Atlas

　　An atlas is a strong man, and also a book of maps. The story of this word begins a long time ago in greece. The 
ancient Greeks believed that their gods had once been a Race of giants called Titans. The Titans fought with another 
group of gods called Olympians, and the Olympians won. Atlas was a Titan. Hhe was punished for fighting be having to 
stand at the western end of the world, holding the sky on his head and hands, so that it would not fall on the world and 
smash everything. After the ancient Greek religion died out, the idea of atlas changed. From holding up the sky with his 
head and hands, he came to be thought of as holding the world on his shoulders. Mercator, a map maker of the sixteenth 
century, used a picture of atlas on the cover of a book of maps, so a book of maps came to be called an atlas. The word 
has still another meaning. The top bone of the neck is called atlas because it supports the head.

　　Good-bye or Good-by

　　Good-bye is a blessing; originally it was god be with ye, and in the course of time it became one word. Many of our 
greetings are good wishes, but we say them with so little thought that we forget this. When we say good morning, good 
evening, good night, and so on, what we are really saying is,“ I hope you will have a good morning (or evening, or night) . ”

　　Daisy

　　The daisy has a little golden eye , like a tiny sun. Perhaps this is the reason the English people named it Day's Eye, or 
perhaps they chose the name because the English daisy closes at night. The English loved their daisies, which were pink 
and red, as well as white. Six hundred years or so ago, the English poet Chaucer said: the daisy, or else the eye of the day, 
/ / the queen, and prettiest flower of all.
