
　　Culture shock is precipitated by the anxiety that results from losing all our familiar signs and symbols of social 
intercourse. Those signs or cues include the thousand and one ways in which we orient ourselves to the situation of daily 
life ; when to shake hands and what to say when we meet people, when and how to give tips, how to make purchases, 
when to accept and when to refuse invitations, when to take statements seriously and when not. These cues, which may 
be words, gestures, facial expressions, customs, or norms, are acquired by all of us in the course of growing up and are as 
much a part of our culture as the language we speak or the beliefs we accept. All of us depend for our peace of mind and 
our efficiency on hundreds of these cues, most of which we do not carry on the level of conscious awareness.

　　Now when an individual enters a strange culture, all or most of these familiar cues are removed. He or she is like a 
fish out of water. No matter how broad-minded or full of good will you may be, a series of props have been knocked from
under you, followed by a feeling of frustration and anxiety. People react to the frustration in much the same way. First 
they reject the environment which causes the discomfort.“The ways of the host country are bad because they make us 
feel bad. ”When foreigners in a strange land get together to grouse about the host country and its people, you can be 
sure they are suffering from culture shock. Another phase of culture shock is regression. The home environment suddenly 
assumes a tremendous importance. To the foreigner everything becomes irrationally glorified. All the difficulties and 
problems are forgotten and only the good things back home are remembered. It usually takes a trip home to bring one 
back to reality.

　　Some of the symptoms of culture shock are excessive washing of the hands, excessive concern over drinking water, 
food dishes, and bedding; fear of physical contact with attendants, the absent-minded stare; a feeling of helplessness and 
a desire for dependence on long-term residents of one’s own nationality; fits of anger over minor frustrations; great 
concern over minor pains and eruptions of the skin; and finally, that terrible longing to be back home.
