Until around 1930 few United States Civil War historians paid much attention to Southerners who
opposed the 1861-1865 secession from the United States by a confederacy of Southern states.
Southern historians clung instead to a notion of the South’s unanimity in the face of Northern
aggression. Only when scholars such as Lonn decided to examine this side of the war did
historian of the Confederacy begin to recognize the existence of Southerners loyal to the Union
(Unionists). While these early historians of Southern dissent broke new ground, they also
reproduced Confederate authoritie’s negative view of loyalists as shady characters driven by
dubious motives. Even Tatum, who took a largely sympathetic attitude toward loyalists, tended to
lump them into nebulous categories, offering broad generalizations that ignored the particulars of
Unionists’ identities and experiences.

This early-twentieth-century historiography nonetheless represented the leading research on
dissent in the South until the 1960s and 1970s. Spurred by the advent of social historical methods,
a new generation of historians found Unionists interesting as manifestations of the Confederacy’s
internal weaknesses. Focusing on the Appalachian Mountain and upper South regions of the
Confederacy, these scholars argued that there was a profound divide among Southern Whites
between those who benefited economically from slave-run plantations and those who did not. One
such historian was Escott, who emphasized regional and economic conflict among Southerners.
Escott cast Unionists and other dissenters as antiplanter mountaineers who could not, by reason of
economic and social alienation, identify with the proslavery Southern cause. This theme has
heavily influenced the work of subsequent scholars, who commonly place Unionists at the
extreme end of a continuum of class-based Confederate disaffection that was ultimately
responsible for the South’s collapse. Because the driving force behind such inquiries into loyalist
history has been a desire to explain Confederate ideology, politics, and defeat, emphasis has
been placed on the ways loyalist Southerners diverged from the political and economic
mainstream of Confederate nationalism.

Only recently have some Civil War historians begun to make Unionists and their experiences,
rather than the Confederate state, the center of inquiry. These scholars have done intensive
community and local studies of dissenting groups that take into account a range of social and
cultural, as well as military and political, factors at work on the Southern home front. Hoping to
better understand who remained loyal to the Union during the war, these historians have sought to
explain the Civil War’s underlying character, dimensions, and impact in particular counties or
towns, especially in the upper South and Appalachia. This relatively new trend has stressed the
particular, delved into the complexities of political allegiances on the home front, and, as
Sutherland notes, highlighted “the gritty experience of real people”.
