Historian E.H Carr’s thesis that all debates concerning the explanation of historical phenomena 
revolve around the question of the priority of causes is so familiar to historians as to constitute 
orthodoxy within their profession. The true historian, as Carr puts it, will feel a professional 
obligation to place the multiple causes of a historical event in a hierarchy by means of which the 
primary or ultimate cause of the event can be identified. In the Marxist mode of historical 
explanation (historical materialism), a universal hierarchy of causes is posited in which economic 
factors are always primary. In the classic, more widely accepted alternative ultimately derived 
from Weberian sociology, hierarchies of causes are treated as historically specific: explanatory 
primacy in any particular historical situation must be established by empirical investigation of that 
situation, not by applying a universal model of historical causation. 

While the need to rank historical causes in some order of importance may seem obvious to most 
historians, such hierarchies raise serious philosophical difficulties. If any historical event is the 
product of a number of factors, then each of these factor is indispensable to the occurrence of the 
event. But how can one cause be more indispensable than another? And if it cannot, how can there 
be a hierarchy of indispensable causes? It was this problem that first led Weber himself to 
argue for the impossibility of any general formula specifying the relative importance of causes; we 
cannot, for example, conclude that in every capitalist society religious change has been more 
significant than economic change (or vice versa) in explaining the rise of capitalism. 

Runciman offers a different argument leading to the same conclusion. He points out that it is 
possible to identify specific factors as the primary causes of a particular historical event only 
relative to an initial set of background conditions. For instance, if we accept English defeats after 
1369 in the Hundred Years War as a given, then we may identify the high levels of taxation 
necessitated by these military reverses as the main cause of the Peasants Revolt of 1381. If instead 
we regard the financing of warfare by taxation in this period as a background condition, then we 
will see the English reverses themselves as the main cause of the revolt. However, neither ordinary 
life nor historical practice offer reliable criteria by which to distinguish causes from background 
conditions and thus to resolve historical debates about the relative importance of causes. And this 
difficulty casts doubt not only on the Marxist effort to identify a universal hierarchy of causes, but 
also on any attempt to identify an objective hierarchy of causes–even of the historically specific 
kind favored by non-Marxists. 