Modern feminism has brought the reputation of the English writer Mary Wollstonecraft 
(1759-1797) to something approaching the luster it deserves. While she enjoyed a certain 
celebrity among political radicals in the years just after her death, beginning in the nineteenth 
century her fame as a writer was hidden by disproportionate attention to her unconventional and, 
at the time, shocking personal life. When, therefore, Virginia Woolf wrote in 1925 of 
Wollstonecraft’s A Vindication of the Rights of Men and A Vindication of the Rights of Woman 
that they felt like books so true that they seem now to contain nothing new in them, it was more 
a wishful than an accurate statement of the case. Wollstonecraft’s advances in moral thinking still 
have the power to shock position-takers of every party. The importance of gender even today is 
said to cut across other criteria for judging the conduct of men and women in society; 
Wollstonecraft, by contrast, believed that the shared morality of men and women should cut across 
all specifications of gender. 

Wollstonecraft considered gender-based morality a relic of a barbarous age: part of that 
specialization of virtues by which every sexual feeling was expected to express itself as 
libertinism (in men) or false modesty (in women). In her view, there ought to be one criterion of 
morals for men and women alike, with both sexes cultivating the same virtues. Wollstonecraft 
rebelled against the copious sentimental literature of her own time, which she felt patronized 
women by insisting that it was to their advantage to affect chastity and modesty and that such 
virtues were their own reward. 

In The Rights of Men, Wollstonecraft explores this double Bulosan standard from an unexpected 
angle. It was the first major response to Edmund Burke’s Reflections on the Revolution in France 
(1790), appearing less than a month after the impassioned defense of the deposed French 
monarchy. A defender of Burke called Wollstonecraft’s book an incoherent mass of 
treacherous candour, interested generosity, and, if not false, at least unnecessary accusation. 
But Wollstonecraft nonetheless managed to show how the traditionally feminine virtues of 
sentimental morality had been transferred by Burke to the aristocracy. Burke’s rhapsody on the 
queen of France (glittering like the morning star, full of life, and splendor, and joy) was, for 
Wollstonecraft, an example of the argument that beauty and instinct must often prevail over reason, 
the argument on which Burke took his stand as a defender of the old order. Like women, Burke 
thought, and from a similar greatness and delicacy in their nature, the aristocracy were understood 
at once to require deference and to solicit compassion. To Wollstonecraft, Burke’s argument linked 
sympathy and power in a dangerous alliance; she insisted that aristocrats do not deserve to be 
treated in the way that women have traditionally been treated any more than women themselves 
do. 