Architectural morphology is the study of how shifting cultural and environmental conditions 
produce changes in an architectural form. When applied to the mission churches of New Mexico 
exemplifying seventeenth- and eighteenth-century Spanish colonial architecture in what is now the 
southwestern United States, architectural morphology reveals much about how Native American 
culture transformed the traditional European church architecture of the Spanish missionaries who 
hoped to convert Native Americans to Christianity. 

Many studies of these mission churches have carefully documented the history and design of their 
unique architectural form, most attribute the churches’ radical departure from their 
sixteenth-century European predecessors to local climate and a less-mechanized building 
technology. Certainly, the limitations imposed by manual labor and the locally available materials 
of mud-brick and timber necessitated a divergence from the original European church model. 
However, the emergence of a church form suited to life in the Southwest was rooted in something 
more fundamental than material and technique. The new architecture resulted from cultural forces 
in both the Spanish colonial and indigenous Native American societies, each with competing ideas 
about form and space and different ways of conveying these ideas symbolically. 

For example, the mission churches share certain spatial qualities with the indigenous kiva,a round, 
partly subterranean room used by many Southwest Native American communities for important 
rituals. Like the kiva it was intended to replace, the typical mission church had thick walls of 
adobe (sun-dried earth and straw), a beaten-earth floor, and one or two small windows. In 
deference to European custom, the ceilings of these churches were higher than those of the 
traditional kiva. However, with the limited lighting afforded by their few small windows, these 
churches still suggest the kiva's characteristically low, boxlike, earth-hugging interior. Thus, 
although pragmatic factors of construction may have contributed to the shape of the mission 
churches, as earlier studies suggest, the provision of a sacred space consistent with indigenous 
traditions may also have been an important consideration in their design. 

The continued viability of the kiva itself in Spanish mission settlements has also been 
underestimated by historians. Freestanding kivas discovered in the ruins of European-style 
missionary communities have been explained by some historians as examples of “superposition”. 
Under this theory, Christian domination over indigenous faiths is dramatized by surrounding the 
kiva with Christian buildings. However, as James Ivey points out, such superposition was unlikely, 
since historical records indicate that most Spanish missionaries, arriving in the Southwest with 
little or no military support, wisely adopted a somewhat conciliatory attitude toward the use of the 
kiva at least initially. This fact, and the careful, solitary placement of the kiva in the center of the 
mission-complex courtyards, suggests an intention to highlight the importance of the kiva rather 
than to diminish it. 