Jane Austen’ s relationship to Romanticism has long been a vexed one. Although her dates 
(1775-1817) place her squarely within the period, she traditionally has been studied apart from the 
male poets whose work defined British Romanticism for most of the twentieth century. In the past 
her novels were thought to follow an Augustan mode at odds with the Romantic ethos. Even with 
the advent of historicist and feminist criticism, which challenged many previous  characterizations of 
Austen as detached from the major social, political and aesthetic currents of  her time, she continued 
to be distinguished from her male contemporaries. Jerome McCann, for  example, insists that Austen 
does not espouse the Romantic ideology. Anne Mellor declares that  Austen, along with other 
“leading women intellectual and writers of the day” “did not”, participate  in the Romantic 
“spirit of the age” but instead embraced an alternative ideology that Mellor labels “feminine Romanticism”. 

To be sure, some critics throughout the years have argued for Austen’s affinities with one or more 
of the male Romantic poets. A special issue of the Wordsworth Circle (Autumn 1976)was devoted 
to exploring connections between Austen and her male contemporaries. Clifford Siskin in his 
historicist study of Romanticism argued that Austen does participate in the same major innovation, 
the naturalization of belief in a developing self, as that characterized in Wordsworth’s poetry and 
other key works from the period. Recently, three books have appeared (by Clara Tuite, William 
Galperin, and William Deresiewicz) that in various ways treat Austen as a Romantic writer and 
together signal a shift in the tendency to segregate the major novelist of the age from the major 
poets. 

The present essay seeks to contribute to this goal of firmly integrating Austen within the Romantic 
movement and canon. It does so by pointing out affinities between Austen and a writer with whom 
she has not commonly been associated, John Keats. Most comparisons of Austen and the 
Romantic poets have focused on Wordsworth and Byron, whose works we know she read. 
Although Austen could not have read Keats’ s poems, which only began to appear in print during 
the last years of her life, and there is no evidence that Keats knew Austen’ s novels, a number of 
important similarities can be noted in these writers’ works that provide further evidence to link 
Austen with the Romantic movement, especially the period of second-generation Romanticism 
when all of her novels were published. 