Mary Barton, particularly in its early chapters, is a moving response to the suffering of the 
industrial worker in the England of the 1840s. What is most impressive about the book is the 
intense and painstaking effort made by the author, Elizabeth Gaskell, to convey the experience of 
everyday life in working class homes. Her method is partly documentary in nature: the novel 
includes such features as a carefully annotate reproduction of dialect, the exact details of food 
prices in an account of a tea party, an itemized description of the furniture of the Bartons’ living 
room, and a transcription (again annotated) of the ballad “The Oldham Weaver”. The interest 
of this record is considerable, even though the method has a slightly distancing effect. 

As a member of the middle class, Gaskell could hardly help approaching working-class life as an 
outside observer and a reporter, and the reader of the novel is always conscious of this fact. But 
there is genuine imaginative re-creation in her accounts of the walk in Green Heys Fields, of tea at 
the Bartons’ house, and of John Barton and his friend’s discovery of the starving family in the 
cellar in the chapter “Poverty and Death.” Indeed, for a similarly convincing re-creation of such 
families’ emotions and responses (which are more crucial than the material details on which the 
mere reporter is apt to concentrate), the English novel had to wait 60 years for the early writing of 
D. H. Lawrence. If Gaskell never quite conveys the sense of full participation that would 
completely authenticate this aspect of Mary Bartons, she still brings to these scenes an intuitive 
recognition of feelings that has its own sufficient conviction. 

The chapter “Old Aice’s History” brilliantly dramatizes the situation of that early generation of 
workers brought from the villages and the countryside to the urban industrial centers. The account 
of Job Leigh, the weaver and naturalist who is devoted to the study of biology, vividly embodies 
one kind of response to an urban industrial environment: an affinity for living things that hardens, 
by its very contrast with its environment, into a kind of crankiness. The early chapters—about 
factory workers walking out in spring into Green Heys Fields, about Alice Wilson, remembering 
in her cellar the twig-gathering for brooms in the native village that she will never again see, about 
job Leigh, intent on his impaled insects—capture the characteristic responses of a generation to 
the new and crushing experience of industrialism. The other early chapters eloquently portray 
the development of the instinctive cooperation with each other that was already becoming an 
important tradition among workers. 