“Blues is for singing,” writes folk musicologist Paul Oliver, and “is not a form of folk song 
that stands up particularly well when written down.” A poet who wants to write blues can 
attempt to avoid this problem by poeticizing the form—but literary blues tend to read like bad 
poetry rather than like refined folk song. For Oliver, the true spirit of the blues inevitably eludes 
the self-conscious imitator. However, Langston Hughes, the first writer to grapple with these 
difficulties of blue poetry, in fact succeeded in producing poems that capture the quality of 
genuine, performed blues while remaining effective as poems. In inventing blues poetry, Hughes 
solved two problems: first, how to write blues lyrics in such a way that they work on the 
printed page, and second, how to exploit the blues form poetically without losing all sense of 
authenticity. 

There are many styles of blues, but the distinction of importance to Hughes is between the genres 
referred to as “folk blues” and “classic blues.” Folk blues and classic blues are distinguished from 
one another by differences in performers (local talents versus touring professionals), patronage 
(local community versus mass audience), creation (improvised versus composed), and 
transmission (oral versus written). It has been a commonplace among critics that Hughes adopted 
the classic blues as the primary model for his blues poetry, and that he writes his best blues 
poetry when he tries least to imitate the folk blues. In this view, Hughes’ attempts to imitate the 
folk blues are too self-conscious, too determined to romanticize the African American 
experience, too intent on reproducing what he takes to be the quaint humor and naïve simplicity 
of the folk blues to be successful. 

But a more realistic view is that by conveying his perceptions as a folk artist ought to—through an 
accumulation of details over the span of his blues oeuvre, rather than by overloading each poem 
with quaintness and naivety–Hughes made his most important contributions to the genre. His 
blues poems are in fact closer stylistically to the folk blues on which he modeled them than to the 
cultivated classic blues. Arnold Rampersad has observed that virtually all of the poems in the 1927 
collection in which Hughes essentially originated blues poetry fall deliberatively within the “range 
of utterance” of common folk. This surely applies to “Young Gal’s Blues,” in which Hughes 
avoids the conventionally “poetic” language and images that the subjects of death and love 
sometimes elicit in his ordinary lyric poetry. To see what Hughes’ blues poetry might have been 
like if he had truly adopted the classic blues as his model, one need only look to “Golden Brown 
Blues,” a song lyric Hughes wrote for composer W.C. Handy. Its images, allusions, and diction are 
conspicuously remote from the common “range of utterance.” 