The National Trust in Britain plays an increasingly important part in the preservation for public enjoyment of the best that 
is left unspoiled of the British countryside. Although the Trust has received practicaland moral support from the Government, 
it is not rich Government department. It is a charity which dependsfor its existence on voluntary support from members of 
the public.

　　The attention of the public was first drawn to the dangers threatening the great old houses and castles ofBritain by the 
death of Lord Lothian, who left his great seventeenth-century house to the Trust together with the 4, 500-acre park and 
estate surrounding it. This gift attracted wide publicity and started the Trust's "Country House Scheme". Under this scheme, 
with the help of the Government and the general public, the Trust has been able to save and open to the public about one 
hundred and fifty of these old houses. Lastyear about one and three quarters of a million people paid to visit these historic 
houses, usually at a very small charge.

　　In addition to country houses and open spaces the Trust now owns some examples of ancient wind and water mills, 
nature reserves, five hundred and forty farms and nearly two thousand five hundred cottages or smallvillage houses, as well 
as some complete villages. In these villages no one is allowed to build, develop or disturb the old village environment in any 
way and all the houses are maintained in their original sixteenth-century style. Over four hundred thousand acres of 
coastline, woodland, and hill country are protected by the Trust and no development or disturbance of any kind are 
permitted. The public has free access to these areas and is only asked to respect the peace, beauty and wildlife.

　　So it is that over the past eighty years the Trust has become a big important organization and an essential and 
respected part of national life, preserving all that is of great natural beauty and of historical significance not only for future 
generations of Britons but also for the millions of tourists who each year invade Britain in search of a great historical and 
cultural heritage.