Thoughts of suicide haunted Anita Rutnam long before she arrived at Syracuse University. She had a historyof mental 
illness and had even attempted to kill herself. During her junior year of college, she tried again. On a February morning 
in 1998, just days after a campus counselor recommended she be hospitalized for her suicidal tendencies, Rutnam threw
 herself off the eighth floor of a Syracuse dormitory.

　　Miraculously, she survived. But three years later, Rutnam still feels the effects of that day. She has notbeen able to 
finish college and is suing her former school for malpractice. Her suit asserts that, given the campus counselor's advice, 
school officials should have done more to prevent her suicide attempt.

　　This incident and others have thrown a spotlight on an issue that is causing growing concern in dorm roomsand 
students center. Are colleges providing adequate care for students who may be struggling with a range of mental 
illnesses? In the Syracuse cases, a spokesman for the school contends, "The University tried repeatedly to help Anita, 
and we felt that they acted appropriately." But lawyers are busy there and elsewhere.

　　After accidents, suicide is the second biggest killer of kids in college. And while the number of studentswho kill 
themselves on campus is no higher than that of 18-to-24-year-olds in the general population, a series of sensational 
incidents has raised the question of whether troubled students are getting proper attention.

　　So what are the schools' responsibilities to at-risk students, particularly those who may be genetically predisposed 
to mental illness? College can be a breeding ground for Psychiatric problems. Poor eating habits and irregular sleeping 
patterns-especially combined with the academic stress of college life -may all play roles in triggering mental problems. 
Additionally, many of the major psychiatric illnesses including depression often do not manifest themselves until the 
late teens or early 20s.