The rise of multinational corporations , global marketing, new communications technologies, and shrinking cultural 
differences have led to an unparalleled increase in global public relations or PR.

　　Surprisingly, since modern PR was largely an American invention, America's relations is being threatened by PR 
efforts in other countries. Ten years ago, for example, the world’s top five public relations agencies were 
American-owned. In 1991, only one was. The British in particular are becoming more sophisticated and creative. A recent 
survey found that more than half of all British companies include PR as part of their corporate planning activities, 
compared to about one-third of U.S. companies. It may not be long before London replaces New York as the capital of PR.

　　Why is America lagging behind in the global PR race? First, Americans as a whole tend to be fairly provincial and take 
more of an interest in local affairs. Knowledge of world geography, for example, has never been strong in this country. 
Secondly, Americans lag behind their European and Asian counterparts in knowing a second language. Less than 5 
percent of Burson—Marshall’s U.S. employees know two languages. Ogilvy and Mather has about the same percentage. 
Conversely, some European firms have half or more of their employees fluent in a second language. Finally, people 
involved in PR abroad tend to keep a closereye on international affairs. In the financial PR area, for instance, most 
Americans read the Wall Street Journal. Overseas, their counterparts read the Journal as well as the Financial Times of 
London and The Economist, publications not often read in this country.

　　Perhaps the PR industry might take a lesson from Ted Turner of CNN (Cable News Network). Turner recently 
announced that the word “foreign”would no longer be used on CNN news broadcasts. According to Turner, global 
communications have made the nations of the world so interdependent that there is no longer any such things as 
foreign.