According to a survey, which was based on the responses of over 188,000 students, today’s traditional-agecollege 
freshmen are "more materialistic and less altruistic" than at any time in the 17 years of the poll.

　　Not surprising in these hard times, the student’s major objective “is to be financially well off. Less important than 
ever is developing a meaningful philosophy of life.” It follows then that today the most popular course is not literature 
or history but accounting.

　　Interest in teaching, social service and the“altruistic”fields is at a low. On the other hand, enrollment in business 
programs, engineering and computer science is way up.

　　That’s no surprise either. A friend of mine (a sales representative for a chemical company) was making twice the 
salary of her college instructors her first year on the job-even before she completed her two-yearassociate degree.

　　While it’s true that we all need a career, it is equally true that our civilization has accumulated an incredible amount 
of knowledge in fields far removed from our own and that we are better for our understanding of these other 
contributions m be they scientific or artistic. It is equally true that, in studying thediverse wisdom of others, we learn how 
to think. More important, perhaps, education teaches us to see the connections between things, as well as to see 
beyond our immediate needs.

　　Weekly we read of unions who went on strike for higher wages, only to drive their employer out of business.No 
company; no job. How shortsighted in the long run!

　　But the most important argument for a broad education is that in studying the accumulated wisdom of the ages, 
we improve our moral sense. I saw a cartoon recently which shows a group of businessmen looking puzzled as they sit 
around a conference table; one of them is talking on the intercom : "Miss Baxter,"he says, "could you please 
send in someone who can distinguish right from wrong?”

　　From the long-term point of view, that’s what education really ought to be about.