Yesterday, my toddler broke another toy. But this wasn't an inexpensive, plastic doo-dad. It was my husband's iPhone.

　　Like many parents these days, my husband and I sometimes band over our smartphones to our son to soothe him or 
keep him entertained. It's partly laziness on our party---no other toy, it seems, can captivate him like the iPhone or 
BlackBerry. He's fascinated by the buttons and touchscreen, the sounds and lights. He hold it up to his ear and pretends 
he's making an important business call (or arranging a playdate with his best friend.) He somehow even managed to 
reprogram my BlackBerry to autotype in the Catalan language.

　　When we take away the BlackBerry or iPhone he wails; no other plaything even a pretty realistic toy cellphone 
satisfies him as much. (The marketing copy for the toy phone says "This authentic looking play phone will surely distract 
your child from getting a hold of your cell phone!" Ha! I wish.)

　　We often hide our phones-we don't want him to ruin them or grow too dependent on them but be almost always 
tracks them down once he hears the ring or the buzz of an incoming message. (Hiding a phone is tough, however, for 
those parents who need to have phones handy in case they're on call or the office beckons.) And when we pick up the 
phone or check messages, that only makes our son want the phone more, since he always wants whatever is in our hands.

　　Invariably, my son sticks the phone in his mouth and it ends up slobbery and pocked with bitemarks. Or when be 
eventually tires of the phone, he'll toss it aside, which is how my husband's iPhone met its recent doom.

　　We're not alone in using our cellphones as high-tech rattles. The AP recently ran a story on how more parents are 
downloading kid-friendly apps, such as white noise and rattle sounds and easy video games, to their cellphones. And 
according to a recent NPR report, one parent to encourage his 11-month-old baby to crawl, waves his Blackberry so the 
baby will crawl toward the gadget.

　　Readers, do you ever resort to handing over your smartphones to your kids? Any horror stories? Any good 
kid-friendly apps to recommend?