According to a new study, this means I likely have significantly higher career satisfaction than if my wife earned the same 
or more than me. Pamela Tolbert，the co-author of The Impact of Relative Earnings Among Dual-Earner Couples on 
Career Satisfaction and Family Satisfaction and a professor at Cornell University's ILR School, looked at 485 middle-class 
married couples in New York State between 1999 and 2002. They were all dual-earner couples---both husband and wife 
held full-time jobs.

　　Ms. Tolbert c1assified as "equal-earner" couples those in which both spouses contributed between 40% and 60% of 
total family income. Those in which the men contributed more than 60% of total family income she classified as 
"traditional" couples. Ms.Tolbert examined how satisfied men and women in these arrangements were with both their 
careers and their family lives.It turns out, not too surprisingly, that men really do like making more than their wives.

　　The study found that men who earn a lot more than their wives report significantly higher career satisfaction than 
men who Earn about the same as their spouses, according to Ms. Tolbert and her co-author，Ronit Manor of Israel's 
Netanya Academic College. "Husbands feel concerned when wives make more than them," says Ms. Tolbert. "We still 
have these kinds of models in our head."

　　But, interestingly, although pay levels affect husbands' career satisfaction, money doesn't seem to matter much 
when it comes to the home front. Whether men earn less, the same or more than their wives has little effect on their 
reported level of family satisfaction, which tends to be high, the researchers found. The reasons for that are open to 
speculation，they added.

　　Meanwhile, women who earn the same as their husbands report Significantly higher levels of career satisfaction than 
do women in traditional couples, but significantly lower family satisfaction. The take-home message of her findings, says 
Ms. Tolbert, is that too many people still cling to outdated gender roles.