Although many of us may feel air-conditioners bring relief from hot, humid or polluted outside air, they pose many 
potential health hazards. Much research has looked at how the movement of air inside a closed environment---such as 
an office building---can spread disease or expose people in the building to harmful chemicals.

　　One of the more widely publicized dangers is that of Legionnaire’s disease, which was first recognized inthe 1970s. 
This was found to have affected people in buildings with air-conditioning systems in which warmair pumped out of the 
system’ cooling towers was somehow sucked back into the air intake,in mostcases due to poor design. The warm air, 
filled with bacteria,was combined with cooled, conditioned air andwas then circulated around various parts of the 
building. Studies showed that even people outside such buildings were at risk if they walked past air exhaust pipes.

　　Large air-conditioning systems add water to the air they circulate by means of humidifiers.Inolder systems, the water 
used for this process is kept in special reservoirs, the bottoms of which providebreeding grounds for bacteria which can 
find their way into the ventilation system. The risk to human health from this situation has been highlighted by the 
fact that the immune systems of approximately half of workers in air-conditioned office buildings have 
developed the ability to fight off the organisms found at the bottom of system reservoirs. But chemicals called 
"biocides" are added to reservoirs to make them germ-free, and they are dangerous in their own right in sufficient 
quantities, as they often contain compounds strongly linked to cancers.

　　Finally, it should be pointed out that the artificial climatic environment created by air-conditioners canalso affect us. 
In a natural environment, whether indoor or outdoor, there are small variations in temperature and humidity. Indeed, the 
human body has long been accustomed to these normal changes. In an air-conditioned living or working environment, 
however, body temperatures remain well under37℃, our normal temperature. This leads to a weakened immune system 
and thus greater exposure to diseases such as colds and flu.