Roughly 250 million years ago, in the worst series of mass extinction in Earth’s history, almost 
all species of life simply vanished. The traditionally held view has been that these extinctions 
occurred gradually, as changing environmental conditions—global cooling, global warming, 
dropping sea levels, or some combination of such factors—made life increasingly difficult 
during the last stages of the Permian period (284-245 million years ago). As Permian life-forms 
declined, they reached a fatal threshold and species succumbed to mass extinction. 

Supporters of the traditionalist view note that species begin disappearing from the fossil record 
well before the end of the Permian period. Yet, while such a pattern could have resulted from a 
slowly rising extinction rate, some scientists argue that just because a species disappears from the 
fossil record doesn’t necessarily mean it became extinct at that point. Moreover, Paul Wignall and 
others have found sites where marine fossil deposits reached a peak of diversity at the very end of 
the Permian period. Thus, Wignall believes late-Permian marine life was thriving until it was 
decimated suddenly by some catastrophe. 

Some geoscientists think that this catastrophe involved a meteor striking the earth. Michael 
Rampino, for instance, claims that a giant meteor crashed into Gondwanaland (the southern 
portion of the supercontinent Pangea, which covered about 30 percent of the globe in Permian 
times), setting off intense volcanism. Airborne soot and dirt from the impact blanketed Earth, 
inhibiting photosynthesis and triggering mass extinction of species. This view is widely 
disputed by traditionalists, however, Grant Young, for example, holds that the gradual breakup of 
the Pangean supercontinent triggered widespread climatic change and glaciation,causing the 
Permian mass extinctions to occur over million of years. Glaciation, Young claims, has occurred 
throughout Earth’s history, and there is evidence that it occurred toward the end off the Permian 
period. Yet Rampino and others question one of the traditionalists’ basic assumption: the periodic 
occurrence of glaciation throughout Earth’s history. Crucial evidence includes the rock deposits 
know as tillites, because they resemble the unstratified drift produced by modern glaciers, 
geologists have long considered tillites to be signposts of glaciation. When trying to determine 
whether particular sedimentary layers represent tillite deposits, geologists look for stones with 
faceted shapes, scratched surfaces, and other features that presumably resulted from glacial 
action. The problem with ascribing all tillites to glaciation, however, is that tillite deposits are 
widespread in Precambrian sediments. Yet temperatures during the Precambrian (3.8 billion to 540 
million years ago)are thought to have been warmer than those in today’s nonglacial world. Thus, 
Rampino thinks that certain tillites were produced by meteor impacts, not glaciers. The first 
compelling evidence that meteor impacts might have produced tillites came from Moon rocks that 
showed the same features as earthly tillites. Since no one believes the Moon ever had glaciers, that 
leaves but one possible cause: impacts. 