Massive projectiles striking much larger bodies create various kinds of craters, including
multi-ring basins–the largest geologic features observed on planets and moons. In such
collisions, the impactor is completely destroyed and its material is incorporated into the larger
body. Collison’s between bodies of comparable size, on the other hand, have very different
consequences: one or both bodies might be entirely smashed, with mass from one or both the
bodies redistributed among new objects formed from the fragments. Such a titanic collision
between Earth and a Mars-size impactor may have given rise to Earth’s Moon.

The Earth-Moon system has always been perplexing. Earth is the only one of the inner planets
with a large satellite, the orbit of which is neither in the equatorial plane of Earth nor in the
plane in which the other planets lie. The Moon’s mean density is much lower than that of Earth
but is about the same as that of Earth’s mantle. This similarity in density has long prompted
speculation that the Moon split away from a rapidly rotating Earth, but this idea founders on
two observations. In order to spin off the Moon, Earth would have had to rotate so fast that a day
would have lasted less than three hours. Science offers no plausible explanation of how it could
have slowed to its current rotational rate from that speed. Moreover, the Moon’s composition,
though similar to that of Earth’s mantle, is not a precise match. Theorizing a titanic collision
eliminates postulating a too-rapidly spinning Earth and accounts for the Moon’s peculiar
composition. In a titanic collision model, the bulk of the Moon would have formed from
a combination of material from the impactor and Earth’s mantle. Most of the earthly component
would have been in the form of melted or vaporized matter. The difficulty in recondensing this
vapor in Earth’s orbit, and its subsequent loss to the vacuum of outer space, might account for the
observed absence in lunar rocks of certain readily vaporized compounds and elements.

Unusual features of some other planets might also be explained by such impacts. Mercury is
known to have a high density in comparison with other rocky planets. A titanic impact could have
stripped away a portion of its rocky mantle, leaving behind a metallic core whose density is out of
proportion with the original ratio of rock to metal. A massive, glancing blow to Venus might have
given it its anomalously slow spin and reversed direction of rotation. Such conjectures are
tempting, but, since no early planet was immune to titanic impacts, they could be used
indiscriminately to explain away in a cavalier fashion every unusual planetary characteristic; still,
we may now be beginning to discern the true role of titanic impacts in planetary history.
