In 1995 the Galileo spacecraft captured data about Jupiters atmosphere—namely, the absence of
most of the predicted atmospheric water—that challenged prevailing theories about Jupiters
structure. The unexpectedness of this finding fits a larger pattern in which theories about planetary
composition and dynamics have failed to predict the realities discovered through space exploration.
Instead of normal planets whose composition could be predicted by theory, the planets populating
our solar system are unique individuals whose chemical and tectonic identities were created
through numerous contingent events. One implication of this is that although the universe
undoubtedly holds other planetary systems, the duplication of the sequence that produced our solar
system and the development of life on Earth is highly unlikely.

Recently planetary scientists have suggested that the external preconditions for the development of
Earth’s biosphere probably included four paramount contingencies. First, a climate conducive to
life on Earth depends upon the extraordinarily narrow orbital parameters that define
a continuously habitable zone where water can exist in a liquid state. If Earths orbit were only 5
percent smaller than it is, temperatures during the early stages of Earths history would have been
high enough to vaporize the oceans. If the Earth-Sun distance were as little as 1 percent larger,
runaway glaciation on Earth about 2 billion years ago would have caused the oceans to freeze and
remain frozen to this day. Second, Jupiter’s enormous mass prevents most Sun-bound comets from
penetrating the inner solar system. It has been estimated that without this shield, Earth would have
experienced bombardment by comet-sized impactors a thousand times more frequently than has
actually been recorded during geological time. Even if Earth‘s surface were not actually sterilized
by this bombardment, it is unlikely that any but the most primitive life-forms could have survived.
This suggests that only planetary systems containing both terrestrial planets like Earth and gas
giants like Jupiter might be capable of sustaining complex life-forms.

Third, the gravitational shield of the giant outer planets, while highly efficient, must
occasionally fail to protect Earth. Paradoxically, while the temperatures required for liquid
water exist only in the inner solar system, the key building blocks of life, including water itself,
occur primarily beyond the asteroid belt. Thus the evolution of life has depended on a frequency
of cometary impacts sufficient to convey water, as well as carbon and nitrogen, from these distant
regions of the solar system to Earth while stopping short of an impact magnitude that would
destroy the atmosphere and oceans.

Finally, Earth’s unique and massive satellite, the Moon, plays a crucial role in stabilizing the
obliquity of Earth’s rotational axis, this obliquity creates the terrestrial seasonality so important to
the evolution and diversity of life. Mars, in contrast, has a wildly oscillating tilt and chaotic
seasonality, while Venus, rotating slowly backward, has virtually no seasonality at all.

