Navigation computers, now sold by most car-makers, cost $2,000 and up. No surprise, then, that they are most often found i
n luxury cars, like Lexus,BMW and Audi. But it is a developing technology-meaning prices should eventually drop-and the 
market does seem to be growing.

　　Even at current prices, a navigation computer is impressive. It can guide you from point to point in most major cities 
with precise turn-by-turn directions-spoken by a clear human-sounding voice. and written on ascreen in front of the driver.

　　The computer works with an antenna  that takes signals from no fewer than three or the 24, global positioning system 
(GPS) satellites. By measuring the time required for a signal to travel between the satellites and the antenna. the car's 
location can be pinned down within l00 meters.

　　The satellite signals. along with inputs on speed from a wheel-speed sensor and direction from a meter, determine the 
car’s position even as it moves. This information is combined with a map database. Streets, landmarks and points of 
interest are included.

　　Most systems are basically identical. The differences come in hardware-the way the computer accepts the driver's 
request for directions and the way it presents the driving instructions. On most systems, a driver enters a desired address, 
motorway junction or point of interest via a touch screen or disc. But the Lexusscreen goes a step further: you can point to 
any spot on the map screen and get directions to it.

　　BMW's system offers a set of cross hairs that can be moved across the map (you have several choices of map scale) to 
pick a point you'd like to get to. Audi's screen can be switched to TV reception.

　　Even the voices that recite the directions can differ, with better systems like BMW's and Lexus's having awider 
vocabulary. The instructions are available in French. German, Spanish, Dutch and Italian, as well asEnglish. The driver can 
also choose parameters for determining the route: fastest, shortest or no freeways, for example.
