12A study published in the New England journal of Medicine estimated that there are an average of 30 in-flight medical 
emergencies on U.S. flights every day. Most of them are not grave; fainting, dizziness and hyperventilation are the most 
frequent complaints, But 13% of them-roughly four a day-are serious enough to require a pilot to change course. The most
common of the serious emergencies include heart trouble (46%), strokes and other neurological problems (18%), and 
difficult breathing (6%).

　　Let's face it: plane riders are stressful. For starters, cabin pressures at high altitudes are set at roughly what they would 
be if you lived at 5,000 to 8,000 feet above sea level. Most people can tolerate these pressures pretty easily, but passengers 
with heart disease may experience chest pains as a result of the reduced amount of oxygen flowing through their blood. 
Low pressure can also cause the air in body cavities to expand-as much as 30%+ Again, most people won't notice anything 
beyond mild stomach cramping. But if you've recently had an operation, your wound could open. And if' a medical device 
has been implanted in your body-a splint, a tracheotomy tube or a catheter -it could expand and cause injury.

　　Another common in-flight problem is deep venous thrombosis-the so-called economy-class syndrome, When you sit 
too long in a cramped position. the blood in our legs tends to clot. Most people just get sore calves. But blood clots, left 
untreated, could travel to the lungs, causing breathing difficulties and even death. Such clots are readily prevented by 
keeping blood flowing; walk and stretch your legs when possible,

　　Whatever you do, don't panic. Things are looking up on the in-flight-emergency front. Doctors who come to 
passengers' aid used to worry about getting sued; their fears have lifted somewhat since the 1998 Aviation Medical 
Assistance Act gave them"good Samaritan" protection. And thanks to more recent legislation, flights with at least one 
attendant are starting to install emergency medical kits with automated defibrillators to treat heart attacks.

　　Are you still wondering if you are healthy enough to fly? If you can walk 150 it. or climb a flight of stairs without getting 
winded, you'll probably do just fine, Having a doctor close by doesn't hurt, either.