The Health Benefits of Drinking Water-ls Bottled Drinking Water Healthier Than Filtered Tap Water?

　　Water is a key ingredientin a healthy diet and lifestyle.There are many health benefits of drinking water.It helps flush impurities and toxins out of our systems.It aids in the delivery of oxygen and nutrients.Infact,nearly every system in our bodies relies on water for proper functioning.But what will happen if the water you drink every day is unhealthy?

　　In past decades,concerns about tap water and its impact on overall health led some people to turn to bottled drinking water instead.However,in those days,there were few choices of bottled waters.You could pay to have a company deliver large bulky plastic bottles of water for the water cooler.Or you could purchase gallon jugs of distilled or “drinking water”at the grocery store.

　　In recent years,there has been an explosion in the number of different bottled waters available,with big distributors such as Coke and Pepsi jumping on the bandwagon.But are bottled drinking waters like Coke's Dasani brand,Pepsi's Aquafina,or Wal-Mart's store brand really any healthier than your tap water? Or would you be better off with a drinking water filtration system?

　　As we have learned more about the water we drink.the technology behind drinking water filters and purification 
systems has improved dramatically.There are filters to remove impurities,chemicals,heavy metals,bacteria and most every 
contaminant you can think of.With the right size and filter combination for your specific home.your tap water can be 
exceptionally pure and healthy.

　　Cost Comparison

　　Drinking water filtration systems have also become more affordable and easy to use.Although the initial cost of a whole 
house system usually amounts to several hundred dollars,that cost is often less than $100 each year if spread out over the 
life of the system.

　　There may be additional expenses to replace carbon filters,membranes in reverse osmosis drinking water filtration 
system,or lamps in an ultraviolet light water treatment device.These expenses can add another $1000r so to the annual 
costs of operating drinking water filters and purification systems.

　　While some people may hesitate to spend so much each year for clean,safe drinking water,they are probably paying 
more for bottled drinking water.Calculations show that at a price of $l to $4 per gallon,bottled ordelivered water costs an 
average of $400 each year,especially if you purchase individual bottles.And that doesn't take into consideration the gas 
needed to drive to the store or the environmental impact of all the empty plastic bottles.

　　Health Aspects

　　Many people who choose bottled drinking water understand that it is more expensive, bue they are still willing to pay 
the extra money because bottled water is thought to be safer and healthier than filtered drinking water. After all,bottled 
water is often marketed as "natural spring water" or "pure glacier water."

　　In reality, few bottled waters come from natural springs, and most of them use municipal tap water. The companies are 
able to get away with this false marketing because the regulatians and standards for bottled drinking water are less 
stringent than those for residential drinking sources.

　　The quality of bottled water is regulated by the Food and Drug Administrarion (FDA), while drinking water systems are 
typically regulated by State regulations or the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This doesn't mean that the FDA isn't 
doing their job.It's just that the rules for bottled water only require it to be as good as tap water, not better.

　　In addition, the FDA regulations only apply to bottled drinking water that is transported across state lines. If a company 
sells their bottled drinking water in the same state where it was bottled, the federal regulations don't apply. The result is 
that many bottled waters are not any healthier than filtered water. and in fact some are less pure.