Nowadays,leaders the world over are busy mapping out blueprints for a new age with environmental protection high on 
their agenda. Sustainable development hits headlines almost every day. It is of utmost importance to restore the 
harmonious balance between man and nature,given the damage we've already done to it.

　　First of all, we must realize that man and nature are interactive.To begin with, we derive everything fromnature. Among 
other things,I'm sure you've all tasted natural produce that is otherwise known as green food. And you must have noticed 
that nearly all beautifying products boast of being natural creams,natural lotions or natural gels. For man,nature has an 
irresistible appeal.

　　But on the other hand we must also realize that nature can be unruly.Nature is indeed like a riddle,some areas of which 
are beyond the reach of science and technology,at least in the foreseeable future. Nevertheless,the advancement of 
science and technology will still characterize the next millennium. The coming new age will provide many opportunities,but 
it will be likewise run of challenges. For instance,United Nations'demographers predict that global population could soar 
from its current 5.9 billion to as many as 11.2 billion by 2050.This will aggravate the current scarcity of natural resources 
caused by environmental degradation.More conflicts over this scarcity may occur with the ghost of nuclear wars always 
hiding in the background. To prevent this nightmare from coming true,governments need to work closely with each other 
and back up their verbal commitment by actions. However, it is not enough only to ask what governments can do to 
achieve the harmony between man and nature. We must ask ourselves what we as individuals can do.

　　Can we all be economical with food,water,electricity or other resources? Can we,or rather,some greedy ones among us,
stop making rare plants and animals into delicious dishes? Can we stop using the unrecyclable style of lunch boxes? If not,
one day they may bury us in an ocean of white rubbish.After all,the earth is not a dustbin;it's our common home.
